# Homework 06

Submit your answers as text into [this Canvas assignment](https://canvas.evergreen.edu/courses/7979/assignments/149713).
### Part 1: Git

What are the four git file statuses?

Draw them in a graph with four boxes (nodes) and six arrows between them (edges).

Only one of the nodes has an incoming arrow; this is the default file status, one of the four.

Label the arrows with one of the following actions or git commands that takes you from the source of that arrow to the next box.

* `git add`
* `git commit`
* `git status`
* "edit a file"
* "create a new file"

### Part 2: Java

What are the four kinds of Java statements?
1.
2.
3.
4.

Label each line of the following code snippet with one of the four kinds.

```java
1. public class BeerSong {
2.    public static void main (String[] args) {
3.        int beerNum = 99;
4.        String word = "bottles";

5.        while (beerNum > 0) {
6.            if (beerNum > 0) {
7.                word = "bottle";
              }
8.            System.out.println(beerNum+" "+word+" of beer on the wall");
9.            System.out.println(beerNum+" "+word+" of beer.");
10.           System.out.println("Take one down.");
11.           System.out.println("Pass it around.");
12.           beerNum = beerNum-1;

13.           if(beerNum > 0) {
14.              System.out.println(beerNum+" "+word+" of beer on the wall");
15.           } else {
16.              System.out.println("No more bottles of beer on the wall.");
              }    
         }
        
       }
   }
```

### Part 3: Head First Java Chapter 03

Read Chapter 3 of Head First Java on variables and references.

Do the following exercises and submit your answers on Canvas.

- Code Magnets, p. 64
- Pool Puzzle, p. 65

### Part 4: The Evolution of Trust

#### Question 0:

You are about to play an interactive series of game called The Evolution of Trust. That is, it will consist of repeated rounds following the same rules, a scoring mechanism, and a condition to end the games to declare a winner.

It describes some basics of game theory, a branch of mathematics that studies strategic decision-making between interacting players.

Without knowing more than that, guess one similarity and one difference between The Evolution of Trust series of games and Battlecode.
#### Question 1:

Now play the interactive game.

https://ncase.me/trust/

In each match of the coin game, you can cooperate (at a cost of one coin) or cheat (at a cost of zero coins).

a. What is the optimal strategy for playing a single round of the coin game against an unknown opponent?

b. What was your strategy (doesn't have to be consistent) against all or some of the players in the multiple-round version of the coin game?

What did your score teach you about its relative success against other strategies? (It doesn't have to be a high score, but it can be. In fact, low scores sometimes teach you more).
#### Question 2:

 For each pair (similarities or differences), try to choose one that is most surprising to you, and one that you already expected going in.

a. What are two similarities between the games you played as Evolution of Trust and Battlecode?
b. What are two differences?
#### Question 3:

For Battlecode, there is a cooperation mode (on by default at beginning of a match) and a "backstabbing" or normal competitive mode that is triggered the first time one rat team attacks another.

There is a different scoring mechanism for each mode. According to the [Battlecode Specs](https://releases.battlecode.org/specs/battlecode26/1.2.6/specs.pdf), pages 3-5:

a. What are the three factors that go into computing your score in either mode?
b. What two factors shift their relative weights, depending on whether you cooperate or backstab?
c. What are the two ways to break ties?
d. How will the above factors go into determining your strategy?


